Note that there is a trade-off between maintaining fine-grained and coarsegrained
conits. If a conit represents a lot of data, such as a complete database,
then updates are aggregated for all the data in the conit. As a consequence, this
DATA-CENTRIC CONSISTENCY MODELS
280
may bring replicas sooner in an inconsistent state. For example, assume that in
Fig. 7-3 two replicas may differ in no more than one outstanding update. In that
case, when the data items in Fig. 7-3(a) have each been updated once at the first
replica, the second one will need to be updated as well. This is not the case when
choosing a smaller conit, as shown in Fig. 7-3(b). There, the replicas are still considered
to be up to date. This problem is particularly important when the data
items contained in a conit are used completely independently, in which case they
are said to falsely share the conit.
Figure 7-3. Choosing the appropriate granularity for a conit. (a) Two updates
lead to update propagation. (b) No update propagation is needed (yet).
Unfortunately, making conits very small is not a good idea, for the simple reason
that the total number of conits that need to be managed grows as well. In other
words, there is an overhead related to managing the conits that needs to be taken
into account. This overhead, in tum, may adversely affect overall performance,
which has to be taken into account.
Although from a conceptual point of view conits form an attractive means for
capturing consistency requirements, there are two important issues that need to be
dealt with before they can be put to practical use. First, in order to enforce consistency
we need to have protocols. Protocols for continuous consistency are discussed
later in this chapter.
A second issue is that program developers must specify the consistency requirements
for their applications. Practice indicates that obtaining such require-
-ments may be extremely difficult. Programmers are generally not used to handling
replication, let alone understanding what it means to provide detailed information
on consistency. Therefore, it is mandatory that there are simple and easy-to-understand
programming interfaces.
Continuous consistency can be implemented as a toolkit which appears to programmers
as just another library that they link with their applications. A conit is
simply declared alongside an update of a data item. For example, the fragment of
pseudocode
AffectsConit(ConitQ, 1, 1);
append message m to queue Q;
CONSISTENCY AND REPLICA nON CHAP. 7
SEC. 7.2 DATA-CENTRIC CONSISTENCY MODELS 281
states that appending a message to queue Q belongs to a conit named ""ConitQ."
Likewise, operations may now also be declared as being dependent on conits:
DependsOnConit(ConitQ, 4, 0, 60);
read message m from head of queue Q;
In this case, the call to DependsOnConitO specifies that the numerical deviation,
ordering deviation, and staleness should be limited to the values 4, 0, and 60 (seconds),
respectively. This can be interpreted as that there should be at most 4
unseen update operations at other replicas, there should be no tentative local
updates, and the local copy of Q should have been checked for staleness no more
than 60 seconds ago. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the underlying
middle ware will attempt to bring the local copy of Q to a state such that the read
operation can be carried out.
7.2.2 Consistent Ordering of Operations
Besides continuous consistency, there is a huge body of work on data-centric
consistency models from the past decades. An important class of models comes
from the field of concurrent programming. Confronted with the fact that in parallel
and distributed computing multiple processes will need to share resources and
access these resources simultaneously, researchers have sought to express the
semantics of concurrent accesses when shared resources are replicated. This has
led to at least one important consistency model that is widely used. In the following,
we concentrate on what is known as sequential consistency, and we will also
discuss a weaker variant, namely causal consistency.
The models that we discuss in this section all deal with consistently ordering
operations on shared, replicated data. In principle, the models augment those of
continuous consistency in the sense that when tentative updates at replicas need to
be committed, replicas will need to reach agreement on a global ordering of those
updates. In other words, they need to agree on a consistent ordering of those
updates. The consistency models we discuss next are all about reaching such consistent
orderings.
Sequential Consistency
In the following, we will use a special notation in which we draw the operations
of a process along a time axis. The time axis is always drawn horizontally,
with time increasing from left to right. The symbols
mean that a write by process P; to data item x with the value a and a read from
that item by Pi returning b have been done, respectively. We assume that each
data item is initially NIL. When there is no confusion concerning which process is
accessing data, we omit the index from the symbols Wand R.
282 CONSISTENCY AND REPLICATION CHAP. 7
As an example, in Fig. 7-4 PI does a write to a data item x, modifying its value
to a. Note that, in principle, this operation WI (x)a is first performed on a copy
of the data store that is local to PI, and is then subsequently propagated to the
other local copies. In our example, P2 later reads the value NIL, and some time
after that a (from its local copy of the store). What we are seeing here is that it
took some time to propagate the update of x to P2, which is perfectly acceptable.
Sequential consistency is an important data-centric consistency model,
which was first defined by Lamport (1979) in the context of shared memory for
multiprocessor systems. In general, a data store is said to be sequentially consistent
when it satisfies the following condition:
The result of any execution is the same as if the (read and write) operations
by all processes on the data store were executed in some sequential
order and the operations of-each individual process appear in this sequence
in the order specified by its program.
What this definition means is that when processes run concurrently on (possibly)
different machines, any valid interleaving of read and write operations is
acceptable behavior, but all processes see the same interleaving of operations.
Note that nothing is said about time; that is, there is no reference to the "most
recent" write operation on a data item. Note that in this context, a process "sees"
writes from all processes but only its own reads.
That time does not playa role can be seen from Fig. 7-5. Consider four processes
operating on the same data item x. In Fig. 7-5(a) process PI first performs
W(x)a to x. Later (in absolute time), process P2 also performs a write operation,
by setting the value of x to b. However, both processes P3 and P4 first read value
b, and later value a. In other words, the write operation of process P2 appears to
have taken place before that of PI·
In contrast, Fig.7-5(b) violates sequential consistency because not all processes
see the same interleaving of write operations. In particular, to process P3, it
appears as if the data item has first been changed to b, and later to a. On the other
hand, P4 will conclude that the final value is b.
To make the notion of sequential consistency more concrete, consider three
concurrently-executing processes PI, P2, and P3, shown in Fig. 7-6 (Dubois et aI.,
1988). The data items in this example are formed by the three integer variables x,
y, and z, which are stored in a (possibly distributed) shared sequentially consistent
Figure 7-4. Behavior of two processes operating on the same data item. The
horizontal axis is time.
SEC. 7.2 DATA-CENTRIC CONSISTENCY MODELS 283
Figure 7-5. (a) A sequentially consistent data store. (b) A data store that is not
sequentially consistent.
Figure 7-6. Three concurrently-executing processes.
data store. We assume that each variable is initialized to O. In this example, an
assignment corresponds to a write operation, whereas a print statement corresponds
to a simultaneous read operation of its two arguments. All statements are
assumed to be indivisible.
Various interleaved execution sequences are possible. With six independent
statements, there are potentially 720 (6!) possible execution sequences, although
some of these violate program order. Consider the 120 (5!) sequences that begin
with x ~ 1. Half of these have print (r.z) before y ~ 1 and thus violate program
order. Half also have print (x,y) before z ~ 1 and also violate program order.
Only 1/4 of the 120 sequences, or 30, are valid. Another 30 valid sequences are
possible starting with y ~ 1 and another 30 can begin with z ~ 1, for a total of 90
valid execution sequences. Four of these are shown in Fig. 7-7.
In Fig. 7-7(a), the three processes are run in order, first Ph then P2, then P3.
The other three examples demonstrate different, but equally valid, interleavings of
the statements in time. Each of the three processes prints two variables. Since the
only values each variable can take on are the initial value (0), or the assigned
value (1), each process produces a 2-bit string. The numbers after Prints are the
actual outputs that appear on the output device.
If weconcatenate the output of PI, P2, and P3 in that order, we get a 6-bit
string that characterizes a particular interleaving of statements. This is the string
listed as the Signature in Fig. 7-7. Below we will characterize each ordering by
its signature rather than by its printout.
Not all 64 signature patterns are allowed. As a trivial example, 000000 is not
permitted, because that would imply that the print statements ran before the
assignment statements, violating the requirement that statements are executed in
284